## Getting started
```test
// install dependencies

npm install

// run development watcher

npm run watch

// run production build

npm run build
```

## SCSS
By default, the Starter Theme’s webpack configuration generates two CSS files:

- `admin.css`: used in the WordPress backend
- `theme.css`: the main theme stylesheet

WordPress needs the `style.css` file in the root folder to retrieve theme data, but this file is not enqueued and should therefore not contain any styles.

### Generating additional stylesheets
Additional stylesheets can be generated by adding a new `.scss` file to the `src/scss` folder and referencing this file inside the webpack configuration file’s _entry_ object (`webpack/webpack.common.js`). Every referenced file’s name should be prefixed with `styles_`, the webpack configuration uses this prefix to remove the JavaScript file generated after every build cycle.

### Folder structure
The Starter Theme’s SCSS folder structure uses the 7-1 pattern, meaning 7 folders and 1 file. The Starter Theme, however, has 2 files by default (`admin.scss` and `theme.scss`) and potentially more.

#### Abstracts
The _abstracts_ folder contains all tools and helpers the project uses. This is where you’ll find variables, mixins and functions.

#### Base
The _base_ folder contains the most basic styles of the theme, things like a reset, typography, and basic form styles. The selectors inside the files in this folder should mostly be element selectors so that they are inherited by all elements.

#### Components
The _components_ folder contains styles for all theme’s components. This is also where you’ll find Gutenberg block styles and admin component styles. Consider grouping related components in a folder.

#### Layout
The _layout_ folder contains anything related to the layout of a website, larger recurring site elements like the header and footer, layout utilities like grids and containers and entry styles.

#### Pages
The _pages_ folder contains page-specific styles.

#### Themes
The _themes_ folder contains theme-specific styles like dark / light mode styles.

#### Vendors
The _vendors_ folder contains styles needed by external libraries or plugins.

### @use and @forward rules
The Starter Theme uses dart-sass which deprecates `@import` rules. Instead, we should now use `@use` and `@forward` rules, for more information on those see [here](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/at-rules/use) and [here](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/at-rules/forward).

These new rules change the way we write SCSS in a couple of ways:

1. Every aforementioned folder contains an `_index.scss` file, which forwards all the folder’s other SCSS files. This make it easier to include all these files at once using a `@use` rule.
2. Variables, functions and mixins (members) are no longer global. These members should be loaded using a `@use` rule in every file that requires them and can be used by writing `<namespace>.<variable>`, `<namespace>.<function>()`, or `@include <namespace>.<mixin>()`. The default namespace equals the name of the file. Although the namespace can be changed, the Starter Theme always uses the default namespace, as this is the easiest way to keep things consistent.
3. Sass built-in modules are no longer global, meaning you need to load them using a `@use` rule. So, when you want to adjust a color using one of the Sass color functions, you have to load it using `@use sass:color`. See the Sass documentation for [an overview of built-in modules](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/modules). Another thing to note is the [deprecation](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/breaking-changes/slash-div) of the forward slash (/) for divisions. Instead, use the built-in `math.div` function from `sass:math`.

### Setting up typography
Start by updating the typographic variables in `_variables.scss` under the ‘Typography’ section. By default, all heading elements have the same line-height (`$line-height-headings`) and relative margins (`$spacing-heading-bottom` and `$spacing-heading-top`). This means that only the font-size needs to be changed inside a media-query to make headings responsive. Line height and margins scale relative to the `font-size`.

The default font sizes are available as CSS custom properties inside `_custom-properties.scss`. A typographic scale function (`functions.get-scale`) that takes a base font-size (e.g., mobile or desktop), a scale ratio (either `$type-scale-ratio` or `$type-scale-ratio-mobile`) and an index, generates these sizes. An index of `0` returns the base font-size. Higher or lower indices return higher or lower sizes, matching the provided ratio. The `$type-scale-start` and `$type-scale-end` variables control which range of default font sizes will be generated.

Not all designs implement a typographic style. Ask a designer if a scale can be implemented anyway, meaning a deviation from the design, or override the default settings and remove the unused variables.

### Layout
The Starter Theme comes with a simple grid system that replaces the Foundation grid. The default grid can be configured using these variables inside `_variables.scss`:

- `$grid-columns-sm`: controls the number of columns the grid has on the smallest resolutions
- `$grid-columns-md`: controls the number of columns the grid has on medium-sized resolutions
- `$grid-columns-lg`: controls the number of columns the grid has on larger sized resolutions
- `$grid-gap`: controls the gap or gutter between each column in the grid

Example grid markup:
```html
<div class="grid">
	<div class="column span-4-sm span-3-md span-4-lg">sidebar</div>
	<div class="column span-4-sm span-5-md span-8-lg">content</div>
</div>
```

#### Waffle grid
For layouts where all columns have the same width, you can use the `.waffle-grid` class. This grid automatically generates columns based on a minimum column width that can be set by changing the `--min` custom property value. This grid is responsive without the need for media queries.

Available custom properties:
- `—min`: controls the minimum width for the columns in the grid
- `—mode`: controls the way the grid adds new columns, `auto-fit` will make columns fill up remaining space, `auto-fill` will add empty columns if there’s space
- `--gap`: controls the gap / gutter between columns and rows

Example grid markup:
```html
<div class="card-grid waffle-grid">
	<div class="card">[...]<div>
	<div class="card">[...]<div>
	<div class="card">[...]<div>
</div>
```
In this example, the `.card-grid` class could be used to set the custom properties.

### Breakpoints
Manage breakpoints in `_variables.scss` and use them with the `mixins.breakpoint` mixin. This mixin wraps the `sass-mq` mixin, which is documented [here](https://github.com/sass-mq/sass-mq).

A basic example:
```scss
@include breakpoint($from: medium) {
	.foo {
		display: block;
	}
}

@include breakpoint($from: small, $until: large) {
	.foo {
		background-color: red;
	}
}
```

## Fonts
The Starter Theme already includes two fonts, which should be replaced when you start a new project. They serve as an example and make the Starter Theme a bit prettier to look at on clean installations.

Font files should be added to folders within the `src/fonts` folder. Each font should have its folder.

Fonts can be added to the stylesheets by adding `@font-face` rules inside `src/scss/base/_fonts.scss`. Webpack will process all fonts included this way and copy them to the `assets/fonts` folder.

Google Fonts can be added to the theme to limit the number of request made to Google. The fonts can be downloaded using [this tool](https://google-webfonts-helper.herokuapp.com/fonts).

## Icons
Webpack bundles icons into sprites. To configure a new sprite, add icons belonging to the same set to a folder within `src/icons` and import each icon in `src/js/config/sprite.js`. You can use the `@surf-icons` alias to import icons from the `src/icons` folder.

The Starter Theme already includes FontAwesome icons from a Node package. You can import these icons in the sprite configuration file using the `@fa-pro-svg` or `@fa-free-svg` aliases.

Example `src/icons` import:
```js
import '@surf-icons/material/settings.svg'
```

Example FontAwesome import:
```js
import '@fa-pro-svg/light/bell.svg'
```

Webpack will generate an icon sprite for each folder inside `src/icons` and for each FontAwesome variant inside the `assets/icons` folder.

FontAwesome Free file names:
```test
sprite-fontawesome-free-brands.svg
sprite-fontawesome-free-regular.svg
sprite-fontawesome-free-solid.svg
```

FontAwesome Pro file names:
```test
sprite-fontawesome-pro-brands.svg
sprite-fontawesome-pro-duotone.svg
sprite-fontawesome-pro-light.svg
sprite-fontawesome-pro-regular.svg
sprite-fontawesome-pro-solid.svg
```

Custom icons file name (e.g., sprite from `src/icons/material`):
```test
sprite-material.svg
```

Each icon inside a sprite will have an ID that equals the original svgs file name.

### Using sprite icons inside a blade template
Use the `x-icon` component inside a Blade template to include a sprite icon.

Example including the bell icon from the pro light FontAwesome sprite:
```php
<x-icon icon="bell" sprite="fontawesome-pro-light" />
```

### Using sprite icons inside a React component
Use the `Icon` component inside a React component to include a sprite icon.

Example including the bell icon from the pro light FontAwesome sprite:
```js
<Icon icon='bell' sprite='fontawesome-pro-light' />
```

Additional props will be added as attributes to the `<svg>`:
```js
<Icon className='icon' icon='bell' sprite='fontawesome-pro-light' />
```
